Well, we're half an hour from the open
in Hong Kong, Shenzhen, and Shanghai.
You're watching the China Show. I'm
Stephen Angel with Ivon Man.
>> Our top story this morning, TSMC shares
in focus after the company's earnings
hit a record. The Taiwanese chip maker
also hiking its forecasts beyond the
loftiest expectations.
>> Asian stocks, meanwhile, following Wall
Street higher after fresh data pointing
to resilience in the US economy.
Investors also cheering calls by Fed
officials for rate cuts this month. And
the US imposes tariffs on graphite from
China, threatening to restrict the
supply of a key mineral in EV batteries.
[Music]
All right, it looks to be a pretty happy
Friday here if you're long these risk
assets. You take a look at how US
futures go. We hit yet another record in
the US overnight as well when it comes
to the S&P and Asia is feeling it a
little bit here. We're slightly up about
a third of 1%. But Taiwan is really the
focus here this hour after that TSMC
results that we saw after the close
yesterday. Right. We saw the ADR surge.
We're seeing that right now in the
Taiwan shares up more than 2%. So
they're guiding higher there when it
comes to their forecast of sales from
mid20s to about 30% now. So certainly
that was certainly uh important for the
market and CCA talking about this demand
and AI remains strong. We'll talk about
the FX impacts later on but certainly
that is why we are seeing the TX up 1%
at the get-go here. So we'll continue to
watch the chip space here this morning.
Obviously the Nvidia story continues on
as well. We did see Nvidia up overnight
also. You take a look at how the dollar
is concerned though. We're slightly on
the back foot but we're still set for
basically two weeks of solid gains for
the green back here. That US data print
as Steve mentioned, right? Retail sales
was strong. We saw a fifth straight
month of jobless claims that decline
goes to show maybe the data is still
looking pretty strong here right now.
And what does this mean for rate cuts,
right? It seems like the Fed officials
are still quite divided. We'll talk
about Waller in a second, though. He's
probably the few that really has stuck
his neck out and saying, "Look, maybe a
July cut is justified." We'll see,
right? 30-year yields in the JGB market
still seeing a slight stabilization
there, but obviously with the upper
election coming through, we're going to
be focusing very much how long rates
perform. That inflation print out of
Japan also didn't quite ease those
concerns about stackflation uh in Japan.
Bitcoin we're watching very closely.
We're just inching back closer to that
120 level there. Of course, the big
thing that we saw in the US was this
legislation, a federal legislation to
regulate these stable coins. That
certainly gives another lift maybe of
more adoption into the space as well.
China futures are doing this here right
now as we wrap up a pretty pretty good
week in terms of Chinese equities. We're
still seeing futures in in the green
here this morning. 718 for Dollar China
and we're watching a little bit of the
weaker dollar, the honky dollar there.
We briefly did saw a bit of a surge and
maybe moving away from the weaker end of
that trading band, but we're still
hovering on that 78490
level. Steve, well, happy Friday, Ivon,
and to everyone else out there as well.
Uh, we don't go a day without talking
about chips. TSMC has raised its revenue
growth outlook for the year, boosting
investor confidence in the global AI
spending spree. CEO CC Wei says while AI
orders remain strong, uncertainty around
the Trump tariff requires caution.
>> We also see AI demand continuing to be
strong,
including the rising demand from
sovereign AI.
Therefore, we now expect our four year
2025 revenue to increase by around 30%
in US dollar term. Amidst the
uncertainties, we want to remain mindful
of the potential terror related impact
and be prudent in our business planning
going into second half 2025 and 2026
while continuing to invest for the
future mega trend.
>> So for more context, Bloomberg
Intelligence senior analyst is here
Steven Zung uh with the latest. So you
got those results, you got the guidance.
Uh what does it tell you about AI demand
and was it in line with your
expectations better, worse, what?
>> I think overall the uh the company uh
raised their guidance for full year.
That alone uh basically is a strong
evidence that the AI demand remain
pretty strong and then uh the market
concern on the uh like currency side or
the overseas ramping operation. uh they
did uh have some impact on the margin uh
but the company uh performed very well
to uh basically they managed to offset
that with their better product mix and
also better execution. Um so they still
deliver very solid margin. Uh but
obviously that will remain the uh
potential concern in the second half.
>> Yeah.
>> It seems to imply that despite raising
that fullear guidance that sales will be
softer in the fourth quarter. Is that
how you interpret it too? Uh that's that
that obviously appears to be the case.
Uh the management the CC way did say
that uh they uh prefer to stay that way
uh given the ongoing uncertainty related
to tariff and to some extent I think
that also maybe reflect the uh potential
sort of consumer weakness in Q4 given
again the macro uh uncertainty there.
Yeah.
>> So so what what how does the tariff
scenario play out for the second half?
mentioned about the potential headwinds
into the second half. So, this guidance
goes forward, it's positive, but how
long does that positivity last?
>> Um, obviously Q3 will still look pretty
solid and then the the tariff thing is
really more about its uncertainty as
opposed to the actual magnitude of the
tariff rate. uh particularly we're
talking about there's a potential uh uh
tariff for semiconductor itself which is
still unknown and
>> in addition to the country specific
there's sectoral
>> exactly uh so again there's a lot of
uncertainty there um but from the
company's perspective I think AI demand
alone uh has been very strong even
though the consumer has been somewhat
soft and also the company's capability
to manage the uh margin as we mentioned
u the uh and also So I think the company
does have a very good pricing power. Uh
the management didn't highlight that
particularly but I think is is it
possible that uh the company may manage
to pass on part of pressure to his
customer which is possible.
>> Stephen, thank you Stephen. I'm there
our blueber intelligence senior analyst
on TSMC. We're going to continue digging
into those earnings. We got Maria Asset
Global Investments in the next hour.
Plus you don't want to miss this one.
We're going to hear later from the
TSMC's senior vice president and CFO
Wendel Huang speaking exclusively to
Bloomberg about that guidance and tech
tensions between the US and China. He
specifically Steve also mentioned the FX
and the currency headwinds moving
forward given what we've been seeing in
the Taiwanese dollar too.
>> Yeah, that's right. And I just find it
fascinating to see, you know, coming up
to this Fed meeting coming up what, in a
week or so, two weeks, uh, you know,
Michelle Bowman and also now Waller
possibly saying we need a cut, right?
>> Yeah. Is it does is it justified right
right now when you take a look at how
the labor market still remains quite
resilient. Uh, when you take a look at
you're not seeing you're starting to see
some tariff pass through that's starting
to bite but not quite right. And I think
Waller's case is, you know, you you
can't wait until the labor market
weakens be until you actually before you
actually cut rates. So that's his
argument here right now as well.
>> He's seeing signs of that weakness and
now would be a possibly a good time.
Don't wait till September.
>> Yeah. Let's let's give a listen to what
we heard.
>> Yeah. Away from tech. And we've also
heard as we've just been discussing a
Fed officials giving conflicting rate
cut outlooks for the year. Let's hear.
>> I believe it makes sense to cut the
FOMC's policy rate by 25 basis points
two weeks from now.
And looking to later this year, if, as I
expect, underlying inflation remains in
check with headline inflation data
reporting modest but temporary increases
from infla uh tariffs that are not
unanchoring inflation expectations
and the economy continues to grow
slowly, I would support even further 25
basis point cuts to move policy towards
neutral.
You can't wait forever because if we
wait till inflation gets to 2% well then
we've lost. We've likely injured the
economy in some way that was completely
unnecessary. And so I'm of the mind that
you know that the summary of economic
projections we put out which had two
rate cuts for this year. I think that's
a reasonable uh outlook to have
>> given the stability in the employment
side of our mandates with the
unemployment rate is still at
historically low levels. elevated
shortrun inflation expectations and
goods inflation rising due to the upward
pressure from tariffs. I find it
appropriate to hold our policy rate at
the current level for some time.
Let's bring in Nitsa Nip now, head of
Asia fixed income research at UBP. I
guess you could chime in on this debate,
right? You know, is a July cut justified
at this point? Um and what do you see in
terms of
>> well it's you know kind of mixed view
right in the market as you mentioned in
fact like the CPI number um the reason
one the underlying component we've been
seeing some impact on from you know the
Asia tariff um so in general we reckon
that you know cut could happen like in
the fourth quarter not in the July
meeting we can still see you know one to
two cut but I think you know fed in
general would like to look at some of
the datas you know going forward in July
in August you know in September to
decide the next move. Yeah.
>> When do you think the next move will
likely be?
>> We reckon um potentially it could be one
to two cut you know this year but that
would happen you know nor uh not you
know right now but probably would be in
the fourth quartile. H
>> how do you think about price action
right now when long rates continue to be
seeing this meltup in yields once again
and this yield curve that continues to
steepen. How much more further could it
steepen you think? Well, in fact, when
you look at the market, um, two weeks
ago, it has been rangebound quite a bit,
but recently because of the data,
because of, you know, like the market
situation, I think, you know, the long
end is, uh, stiffening. So, that's why
for the 10 years, we'll be very
cautious. We reckon that the 10 year
could be, you know, reaching around like
5%, it's possible. It's still possible.
So, therefore, um, we will advise
clients, you know, not trying to put
money, you know, to work at the moment
for the long end rather maybe, you know,
um, invest in the short duration bonds.
out here is there quality credit despite
all the noise and uncertainty.
>> Yeah. Um at the moment I think you know
for most of the investor what they want
to go will be simple quality credit
something they know good fundamental I
think that's very important. Um at the
moment you know um I think in the market
we are still trying to look for some
opportunity for example in the bank 81
space like some of the European bank
because they will be able to offer
investor with around like at least over
6% kind of yield. But when you look at
some Asian credit doubleB Indian names
now it's around like 5.5 doubleB but for
some banks they actually on bank 81s
they are you know in investment grade or
high double B with the cordier 5year
which is you know pretty interesting I
would say h
>> how how much more tighter can the
spreads get though right now it it's a
difficult question to be honest because
at the moment um credit spread has been
very tight and but it's you know also
very resilient there's you know reasons
for that first of all um if you're
talking about like you know some IG
credit at around like 4.55%. is still
relatively decent compared with you know
a few years back right um but at the
same time people demand remains strong
supply seems to be manageable a lot of
the issue in particularly in Asia are
still going for bank loans and therefore
you know that could limit the supply so
I think at the moment credit spread
could be sort of like rangebound but I
just don't particularly think that you
know it could be much tighter from
current level
>> where's your diversification play away
from US dollar if we're going to get on
an easing cycle is there going to be
those outflows to this part of the world
perhaps and what would be the credit
perspective from you?
>> Yeah, I mean like um I think a lot of
people are talking about diversifying
from US dollar. Our view is also like
you know a weakened US dollar and
therefore the thing that we can find in
the credit market would be for example
all C denominator bond because RBA
actually you know give a pause um you
know last week right but at the same
time yesterday when you see the
unemployment rate 4.3 it's actually um
surprised the market um so we reckon
that potentially RBA may you know cut
the rate and therefore with like 4% or
4.5% for some Aussie denominated bond I
think it's a good investment opportunity
outside of US what what sort of client
reception are you getting when it comes
to shifting away from US exceptionalism?
>> I I think you know people are preparing
for that. I won't particularly think
that you know at the moment people are
massively like you know diversifying
away again you know you need supply from
the other market to replace US dollar at
the moment I think people are preparing
for that looking for opportunity if
opportunity comes then they will you
know go for that but not really you know
like as the first priority.
>> Yeah.
>> How about Hong Kong China? Okay. Um I
think the spread for Hong Kong China um
in particular like China IG will remain
stable but Hong Kong um you you are
talking about property names. I think
we'll just stick to the investment grade
names rather than the unrated one.
>> Yeah there's been a few I guess names
that we won't mention here but there's
some volatility and it's a thank you and
it's a nip there head of fixing research
Asia at UBP. Of course we're counting
down the opens of trade in Shanghai,
Shenzhen and Hong Kong. This is the
China show.
[Music]
And welcome back. You're watching the
China Show. Ivonne, we love busy
Fridays, don't we?
go by so much faster to the weekend. We
have a busy day today looking at that
China stocks rally. Obviously, I've been
looking at the CSI 300. It's up five of
the last 6 days as it's at about 4,034.
Hong Kong, of course, uh been doing
pretty well as well this year. Chip
stocks definitely in focus. TSMC uh
lifting up that sector, giving a good
outlook uh for AI demand going forward.
That's going to be a recurring theme
throughout this morning. Of course, EV
battery makers, uh, maybe a little bit
of a different picture. Obviously, the
US set to impose about 93 and a half%
tariffs on battery materials out of
China. That is going to be an
interesting story which we are going to
forensically dissect. Of course, uh,
Hong Kong dollar, you talked about that
earlier today, testing, well, maybe not
testing as hard the low end of that
band. not as hard, but we're still, you
know, after so many, you know, inter
interventions, I mean, things are maybe
looking a little bit more stable in that
front, but I think most people in the
market still think that they still have
some ways to go really, but we're still
in that window for FDI data as well.
Yeah, we got to check those Asia
graphite makers as Steve mentioned
though, after what we've been hearing,
these anti-dumping duties on Chinese
imports. And you're seeing a interesting
picture there from some of these Korean
names as well like POSCO Future that's
surging some 21% that's similar to what
we saw in some of these Canadian
graphite firms that also rallied
overnight as well in the back of this
move as well. Let's bring in our China
correspondent Mman Low on what's going
to be the impact of these new tariffs on
the battery as well as the auto
industry.
>> Yeah. So 93 and a half% that's just the
new tariff and if you take in the
pre-existing tariffs it will bring the
total tariff on graphite products to
about 160%. That's according to a trade
organization that had submitted those
petition to US federal agencies to start
this investigation into Chinese graphite
companies. So 160% is a big cost
increase for battery makers especially
some of the actually some South Korean
and Japanese uh battery makers in the US
will be hit as well. I mean, of course,
further downstream is the EV makers like
Tesla. We already saw the stocks there
falling about 0.7% overnight in the US.
And actually, Elon Musk has been one of
the most outspoken voices in opposing
these tariffs. But even his close
relations with Trump hasn't been
successful in helping him hold these
tariffs coming from the uh commerce
secretary. And this chart you can see it
shows you that about twothirds of the
supply of graphite in the US is coming
from China. So it's going to take a few
years uh according to industrial e
executives for the US to for at least US
producers to ramp up production enough
to be able to meet the volume as well as
the quality required for car makers
because you do need a very pure type of
graphite uh to make the anodes in these
batteries. Um and so it's it's going to
be a a big hit for these car makers.
>> Meanwhile, we have some new data on how
Chinese car companies are still heavily
underutilized. The overcapacity issues
are there and they are we've known this
trying to flood the global markets with
that excess capacity. At the same time,
you're hearing comments from Xiinping
wondering about whether all the
provinces need to go into these policy
industries like EVs and AI and batteries
and the like. So interesting dynamic
happening in China.
>> Yeah. And uh I would really recommend
you read this story that is out on the
terminal. has a lot of data and it
really shows you how Chinese car makers
as you said they are operating way below
the benchmark utilization rate which is
70% for uh that is necessary for
profitability. So most car makers are
operating be below that. Top of the
ranking is Tesla operating at very high
utilization rate in China. And next uh
is Xiaomi which is also doing very well
after its SUV launch last uh month. I
believe that saw very strong reception
and the company had to ramp up
production. BYD as well operating at 80
to 86% capacity. But the other car
makers, I'm talking about Gile as well
as some of the foreign car makers, the
joint ventures like Nissan, Honda um or
even SEIC, they're operating at 50% or
below. And that's why they really need
to find these overseas markets. And if
you look at this next chart, it shows
you all these new markets that Chinese
companies are looking at, especially in
the emerging markets. Indonesia for
example um the Middle East is becoming
an important market as well looking at
500 over percent increase over the last
few years um and that cycle is not even
close to the end. Yeah, that's the
numbers that you can see 24,000% for
Indonesia, Kazakhstan as well. Um and
that cycle is not even close to the end
because even though market leader like
BYD is occupying maybe about 25 27% of
the market share. So about a quarter of
the market share but 30% 37% of that
market share is being fought over by
over 120 companies. So many of them are
still trying to wrangle for space in
that market. There are still newcomers
coming in although at a smaller pace. So
it's still a very intense competition in
China and that over capacity might be
continuing on. Yeah, these are some
study numbers there. A Mimman, thank
you. Our China correspondent, Mim Lo
there with the latest on these tariffs
and the like. Uh we take a look comes to
the pre-market in Hong Kong here today.
Looks like we could be seeing a pretty
punchy open. We're up 1% in the
pre-market here. Futures are also
heading higher. The open coming up next
and we'll get you a preview. This is
Bloomberg
[Music]
and welcome back. You are watching the
China show here on Bloomberg. We are
counting down to the open of markets.
and looking pretty positive especially
in the tech space uh in Hong Hang there
at 24,757
of course the sentiment up in the chip
space Ivon because TSMC raising the 2025
outlook in a big boost for AI demand uh
meanwhile on the flip side sort of that
on sentiment the US set to impose uh
some 93 and a half% tariff on battery
materials out of China and of course the
ongoing debate will they or won't they
start easing from the Fed. That's
something we're discussing as we
approach now this the open in 8 7 6 5 4
you know
>> it's like a rocket launch right every
day. Um yeah there's so many macro
themes right whether it's the split Fed
and how they're thinking about the next
rate cut. Uh but you know overall though
the data in the US that we got overnight
was actually strong. That's why we did
see a bit of an uptick in the dollar.
We've come off a little bit on that
front here today. But equities continue
to carry on uh and extend this rally
globally here, right after we saw US
stocks hit those records. Onshore, we're
still talking about a second straight
week of gains for the CSI 300. Though,
as Steve mentioned, the out
underperformance compared to Hong Kong
is still quite wide, but maybe there is
still some room for catchup here as
well. Uh you take a look at how
Shenzhen's doing. We're doing slightly
better there in the China X and the
Shenzhen gauge there. Uh we're watching
very closely what happens uh when it
comes to the tech space uh in China.
Obviously, we talked about crude still
doing up about 2%. Commodities are doing
quite well. We're actually seeing a
pretty big beat and massive bid, I
should say, across likes of iron ore
from Shanghai crude to steal rebar here
this morning. So, uh maybe on the back
of what we've been seeing has been
strong data coming through from China
this week after that data dump as well.
CL is doing quite well. Of course, we're
watching some of the EV space overall
just given what we've been hearing about
uh battery makers for example and
tariffs there. Uh but we're also
focusing on what happens in Hong Kong,
right? It seems like a lot of the action
still is focused on the tech space that
continues to drive this equity market
higher. There you go. HST is up 1.6%. I
believe we're still about uh 2% away.
Actually, I'm talking about Taiwan
though. 2% away from the highs and the
peaks that were reached uh for the TX uh
back earlier this part of the year. But
TSMC certainly is lifting that and
lifting most of the tech space here this
morning. Take a look at how the bat is
concerned here. BU Alibaba's up close to
3%. Tensson's up more than 1% here right
now. Mtoan as well. So even you know the
the whole concerns about food delivery
space and the like. We're brushing those
aside here right now. It's really about
AI and how that's once again reigniting
a little bit this whole AI train since
what deepseek right which really has
been a few weeks or months now. So you
got to thank Avidia for that this week
as well. I guess TSMC kind of lit
another fire under that here once again
watching of course the Eevee space. So,
yes, there's tariffs, but then we're
focusing on what's happening with the
likes of Lee Auto as well. Interesting
enough, we're actually seeing it lower
at the open. There's a whole new product
launch, i8 model. This is the six-seater
SUV. Uh, City coming through saying that
uh it actually could lead to some pretty
uh strong pre-order momentum here right
now. So, that could actually be helping
the stock, but not today. Neo, though,
is doing very well. We're up 6.6% here
this morning. And we're watching, of
course, as we mentioned, those graphite
stocks. So that 93 a.5% tariff on some
of these Chinese battery makers. Uh this
is the China sort of the ones that were
listed and we're watching very closely.
We're actually still seeing some decent
gains on some of these particular
companies as well. Uh so certainly we're
seeing that across the region here this
morning. So we'll see what the
implications are really on some of these
local firms. And there you go.
Chipmakers are doing very well here
today. TSMC really helping that as well.
We're watching the likes of SMIC up one
and a half% today, Steve.
>> Well, we're going to continue that theme
now. A US-based think tank says
lithography remains the critical choke
point for China's chipm as the country
dives, drives, I should say, towards
self-sufficiency in semiconductors.
Joining us now is Jacob Felgo, senior
data research analyst at Georgetown
University Center for Security and
Emerging Technologies. He's the
co-author of their new report. Jacob,
thanks so much for joining us uh here on
the China show. So, obviously we had a
lot of developments this week with
Nvidia getting a White House approval to
get the H20 back into China. There's
always been debate about China's
capabilities amid those export controls
obviously where are they catching up and
where are they lagging? I guess
lithography, advanced lithography is
where you're saying uh they need uh they
need catchup.
Yeah, exactly. So, what we saw, we
conducted a study and looked at where
China's gained market share over the
past five years in these chipmools. And
what we saw is that they've made slow
steady progress in many of the major
tool categories. And uh kind of within
that we we dug down a little bit deeper
and we saw that within those tool
categories it was really the older less
advanced chipm tools where where Chinese
toolmakers are are making the most
progress and so they're not at the the
leading edge yet by any means. Um but
the question is whether they'll be able
to take those initial revenue gains pump
them into R&D and move move further up
the value chain. Lithography, however,
was the notable exception where we
really didn't see any major progress at
all from Chinese chipmakers. And even
when we looked at the subsegment that
with the oldest lithography tools where
you would have expected them to make
some progress, we saw basically nothing.
A
>> and what does it tell us about what in
terms of export curbs about tariffs?
what has actually worked from the US and
maybe curtailing this advancement in in
lithography for example I know ASML
still dominates in this space as well
does the move that we saw rec this week
with Nvidia now resuming
>> H20 chips to China for example
>> you know is it going to put Netherlands
and Japan are they going to basically
not really continue on with some of
these export curves now
>> yeah so I I think the the concern has
been almost the opposite the The US
curbs are not focused on the on on
preventing China's rise in equipment.
They're they're focused further down or
further down the supply chain on the
fabrication on the design of of uh
chips. But when it comes to the tools,
we haven't seen a lot of controls target
that sector uh target China's progress
in that sector in particular. And the
the concern again has been that the uh
the export controls further down the
supply chain might actually accelerate
proh China's progress further up the
supply chain. And so I I wouldn't say
that we have a conclusive result on
whether what we're seeing is uh the is a
consequence of export controls. But
there are some areas that we're watching
closely like chemical mechanical
planerization tools. this very niche
subsegment.
>> Well, we're seeing footage now of Jensen
Hang of Nvidia in Beijing. And his point
all along has been these export controls
on the H20 and other chips essentially
giving the likes of Huawei an unfair
advantage and accelerating as you're
alluding to uh their progress. But on
the equipment and lithography, as Ivonne
said, you know, we're talking ASML in in
the Netherlands, we're talking Tokyo
Electron in Japan. And there's only a
few main companies that make this high
high-end equipment which is highly
technical, highly sensitive. How far
away if China is looking at
self-reliance in the whole chipm are
they from getting that expertise not
just of course on in the silicon and in
the chips but in the equip uh the chipm
equipment like lithography.
>> Yeah, they're really far off. um we
still see very high market shares for US
and Japanese firms and and Dutch firms
as well and in some places we're seeing
those firms even further consolidate
their market share advantages. Uh again
the the places where we're seeing China
make progress are really at the the less
advanced older versions of many of these
tools. Um and so they're they're still
quite a ways off. they still have uh I'd
say major self-sufficiency problems when
it comes to chipmools that you know the
Chinese government has recognized this
for decades tried to pump money and and
uh government support into this space
and they're making marginal gains but
they have far long way to go I would say
why is that Jacob
China's been able to throw money at
problems and look what they've done in
EVs and batteries in solar and the like.
What? Why? What's the main choke point?
Why?
>> I think the there's a couple pieces. I
would say subsystems. So, the the
components that actually go into these
tools are themselves very complicated
and China is still in the progress of
building up their capabilities to
produce those subsystems. There's a
talent problem as well. You have, you
know, the people who know how to make
these tools mostly in the the United
States and Japan and the Netherlands.
And then lastly, the technical
sophistication of some of these things.
I mean, particularly if we look at some
of the most, you know, advanced
lithography tools. You're talking about
thousands of components, um, you know,
hundreds of suppliers. It's very
difficult to assemble the supply chain
to build these things and they're only
getting more complex.
Uh Jacob, just given your research where
we're seeing, you know, China gaining
ground in self-sufficiency and where we
may not in lithography, for example,
what what are the implications then?
What are sort of the sectors and
industries that you think that can still
thrive
>> under these circumstances?
Hm.
I would say the the implications are
that
at least in the short to medium term
when we're thinking about where China is
making progress in the AI stack which is
what a lot of what we think about at
CEST um it's important to focus on the
chip fabrication and the chip uh design.
So this is, you know, for design Huawei,
for fabrication, Smick, and also Huawei
affiliates. Um, but the the equipment
game is still is still a long way off.
They're still going to be heavily
reliant on those foreign suppliers and
the their gains, you know, in the AI
stack in the short to medium term are
going to be concentrated at the design
and fabrication stages. Does that help,
>> Jacob? Yeah, it does. Thank you so much.
It's great to, you know, talk to you
more about the research there. Jacob
Felgo is there, senior data research
analyst at Center for Security and
Emerging Technology at Georgetown
University. Well, coming up, crypto
getting a boost from US lawmakers
passing Trump backed legislation on
stable coins and what's seen as a coming
of age for digital assets. Well, the
details coming up next. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
We are checking Hong Kong crypto shares
in the likes of Bitcoin here this
morning. We're actually back above that
120,000 sort of level for Bitcoin and
yeah, it's lifting the crypto space here
in Hong Kong today. Hu Tech, for
example, is up some 5%. So this is on
the back of the US Congress has passed
the first federal legislation to
regulate stable coins clearing the way
for broader use of the technology in
everyday finance. Let's get to our
cryptocurrency reporter Zashi Gosh.
She's with us here right now. How big of
a deal is this and what does it mean for
the crypto industry overall?
It is quite a important you can say it's
kind of a gamecher uh because the
biggest market in crypto which is in the
US has passed this much anticipated
legislation allowing a broader adoption
of stable coins uh to start with uh
which is which means that you know going
ahead uh the biggest money movers which
are banks uh they can they can kind of
you know allow to incorporate they can
be allowed to incorporate you
stable coins as part of their
businesses. It's it's a it's a quite a
bit bit of an important um uh you know
uh ruling in that sense legislation
because it helps you and me and
corporates to pass your uh our money uh
through across the country and across
global regions without worrying that
there will be uh there will be
compliance issues. So that that's why
it's it's an important uh uh legislation
that people have been waiting for,
traders have been waiting for uh in the
in the market.
>> And what does it mean for other
countries in regions? Of course, we're
in a world of a dollar denominated
system. Uh but again, there's
diversification going into stable coins.
And when I was at the World Economic
Forum, I asked this question about Hong
Kong having its uh basic uh sandbox and
possibly having that stable coin linked
to the offshore remn. And the deputy
managing director of the IMF and former
PBOC deputy governor Lee Bo started
nodding his head saying yes it's
happening. So how much of a tsunami if
you will of support in other
jurisdictions is our stable coins?
That's a very interesting question and a
very hot topic among regular reg
regulators like you likely rightly
pointed out Stephen uh you know it's a
it's a dollar dollar dominated uh stable
coin market as of now but we are seeing
several parts of the world including
like you said Hong Kong then we have
Singapore uh Malaysia Thailand a large
part of you know Southeast Asian nations
and and of course Europe as well
developing their own uh local currency
regulated or denominated stable coins.
The most of these are uh you know either
in the sandboxes or in the pilot stages.
So there's a lot of quite a bit of time
uh until they scale but everybody wants
to you know promote and propagate their
own currency and that will be a
interesting uh play we will see where uh
you know there will be local currencies
you know uh maybe also fighting it out
with the US dollar uh dominate dominance
in stable coins. Of course, the the
important thing to note over here is how
one can smoothly switch between one
stable coin uh one currency denominator
stable coin to the other. For example,
euro to dollar or you know offshore renb
to to USD that has to be uh seen as we
progress. But yes, stable coins is the
hottest topic because this is the
easiest and the fastest way to move
money uh versus uh as of now the the
fiat money which we say the the the
usual uh currency uh that we see in the
global global financial regime. Yeah.
>> Yeah, it definitely is uh getting a lot
more airtime of course. Uh Bloomberg
cryptocurrency reporter Sashri gosh,
thanks for joining us here on the China
show. will have more analysis on the US
stable coining law and the impact for
wouldbe Asian crypto hubs Singapore and
Hong Kong. We'll get analysis from
blockchain intelligence firm TRM Labs
and the head of Coinbase Singapore on
Insight later today with Hassenda Amen.
>> And now to some other corporate
headlines this morning. Wells Fargo is
said to have suspended employee travel
to China after an Atlanta based trade
finance MD was recently barred from
leaving the country. The employee was
born in Shanghai. A source says that's
led the bank to restrict travel for
other staff. In a statement, Wells Fargo
says it's working through appropriate
channels to bring her back to the US.
Netflix expectations across the board in
the second quarter, posting revenue of
11.1 billion. It also raised their
fullear guidance, forecasting $45
billion in sales and a near 30% margin.
The company's market cap now exceeds
$500 billion as it leans into content
and ads amid rising global competition.
>> All right. Well, Ivonne, Japanese Prime
Minister Shigaru Ishiba
Ishiba Asan is set to meet US Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant in Tokyo later
today just before his government faces a
crucial upper house election on Sunday.
Japan politics and economics reporter
Sakura Murakami joins us now from Tokyo.
So Sakura, what can we expect from these
talks? Obviously, there's been some
contentious back and forth between
Washington and Tokyo about the possible
tariffs. What can Bessant say and do
that will make a difference this
weekend?
>> Uh to be honest, there's not a lot we
can expect from the talks today. Um at
the mo the there'll probably be more of
the same which is probably working
towards a mutually beneficial agreement.
This is mainly because uh Prime Minister
Oshiba is in a very difficult position
with the elections coming up this Sunday
and that puts him in an awkward position
of having to uh he he can't strike a bad
deal. Um but so in this case it's
probably better to have no deal. So at
this point um on the face of it,
Secretary Besson is in Tokyo and he will
be visiting Osaka probably um later this
week to attend the world expo and that's
the main purpose of his visit. So it
might be awkward for Japanese officials
offic um especially but um that's what
we can expect at this point
>> and the timing of it is is quite
interesting right just ahead of this
upper house election. So do you think
Besson's visit will impact these
elections in any way?
>> So at the moment um there is real
concern about the impact the tariffs
will have on the economy. But in terms
of the polls and the general public
about maybe 8 n% of the people are
saying that this will the results of the
tariff tariff talks will impact their
voting and how they'll vote in the
ballot um how they'll cast their ballot.
So it's not to say that there is no
impact but um people will be concerned
and especially the optics of it is going
to be interesting as well. If um Bessant
and Ishiba meet and prime minister
Ishiba comes away without uh any strong
message or you know any kind of real
progress scene. It's going to uh not
look so great for him with only two days
until people actually cast their vote as
well. So um the optics of it will be
something uh people will be looking for
as well.
>> Well Sakura, how tenuous is Ishibasan's
mandate to rule? I mean are people I
mean there's been a revolving door of
prime ministers of course in Japan for a
long time. Shinsza AB was sort of the
exception there. But uh does does a lot
hang in the balance for him with this
obviously with the US relationship but
with this upper house election?
Yes, for sure. I mean, at the moment,
the he's he's ruling with a minority
government. He had a bit of a bruising
defeat last October when he couldn't
quite win the majority. And so, he's
been with with the minority government,
he's been made be making a lot of
concessions with the smaller opposition
parties. The opposition parties haven't
really galvanized around a specific
leader to bring down Ishiba at this
point. So, um, that's is that's also
partly because these trade talks are
ongoing and it's going to be a bad look
for if there isn't a strong leader who's
going who's sort of spearheading these
talks. But that being said, um, polls
show that uh, approval for also the
ruling Liberal Democratic Party is
looking not great. Um a recent poll put
uh approval for yeshiba at 20% which is
quite low and um in by Sunday when the
results come out we might be looking at
a petition uh potentially uh sheiba
standing down or um soldering on but um
also uh with a lesser mandate.
Yeah, Sakura, it's going to be a busy
weekend for you. It sounds like Sakura
Murakami there, our Japan politics and
econ economics reporter joining us out
of Tokyo. We got plenty more ahead. This
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
All right, we're checking some movers
here this morning. It still it remains
the TSMC the big story of the day here
with what they've been seeing raising
their uh revenue outlook and the like uh
on this whole AI boost here. So that's
reinvigorating this whole AI trade. TSMC
shares are at 2% and I believe we're
around those record highs if not higher
right now that we're watching the whole
supply chain of uh TSMC as well all
looking decently slightly higher this
morning. But Asia chips that really is
where we are seeing it, you know, spread
regionally here. But it's a mixed
picture, right? Take a look at SKH
Highix MediaTek that's doing well. Tokyo
Electron and Samsung though heading the
other direction. Steve,
>> of course, we're going to continue to be
digging into the TSMC earnings with
Marray asset global investments in the
next hour. Plus, we're going to hear
later from TSMC's senior vice president
and chief financial officer. Great get
there. Wendell Hang speaking exclusively
to Bloomberg about the company's
forecast and tech tensions between the
US and China. So, lots to chew on.
Obviously, we'll have a lot more in the
next on the way, of course, in the next
hour. You are watching the China show as
we approach 10:00 in Shanghai and the
Orient Pearl Tower from our offices in
Lu Jadu. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
And welcome back to this Friday edition,
the second hour of the China show. Uh,
as you can see, the hang up buoyed by
tech sentiment right now after the TSMC
uh upgraded outlook. Chinese Commerce
Minister Wongwent Tao set to speak there
at the country's 14th 5-year plan about
to take the deis there. Obviously, the
next 5-year plan, Ivon, is going to
really be centered around self-reliance,
self-sufficiency in the face of ongoing
trade disputes with the likes of the
United States.
>> Well, interesting to hear what he says
about what he assumes in terms of
tariffs. I mean, obviously, we're
getting closer to that August deadline
uh there in China. And certainly, you
know, this week it's really about the
Avidia story, right? And that's really
kind of, I guess, eased up some of the
concerns around where US China trade
tensions are moving forward. Uh, in
terms of the market impact, we talked
about the Hang Sang. We're yeah, near
those session highs. We're about 1% to
the upside there for Hang Sang and we're
talking about a second straight week of
gains possibly when it comes to the CSI
300. We're watching the healthcare space
that continues to be quite hot as well.
there was a line coming through uh from
JP Morgan and their team saying that you
know there's still some catalysts that
are well positioned to continue
outperforming uh even after this rally
that we've seen in the healthc care
sector right so they're talking about
you know it's the strong momentum and
the outlicicensing deals of these
innovative drugs the solid fundamentals
of China biotech and and and pharma
companies there that really leads to a
very favorable domestic policy
environment there as well so there you
go another day where we are seeing
healthcare outperform and then it's
still that TSMC effect here. TSMC is
still up some 2% for the stock here and
that is helping to raise all their
suppliers and tech shares overall in the
region.
>> Yeah, rising tide lift all boats and
TSMC the biggest contract manufacturer
and chips the foundry in Taiwan
definitely raising sentiment not only
that just their outlook. TSMC shares
they are higher in Taibbe after it
raised sales growth projection for the
year to around 30% in US dollar terms.
But CFO Wendel Huang warning that the
appreciating Taiwanese dollar would
probably depress third quarter business.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate
between US dollar and NT will have a
sizable impact to our reported revenue
and gross profit margin. The sensitivity
of the revenue to dollar NT exchange
rate is nearly 100%.
That is every 1% appreciation of NT
against US dollars will reduce our
reported NT revenue by 1%.
>> Wendell Hang speaking there and NT of
course is new Taiwan dollar. Uh let's
bring in Edward Chan, portfolio manager
and senior investment analyst at Marray
Asset Global Investments. Thanks so much
for joining us. So first of all just
your first reaction uh to those results
and of course uh the guidance going
forward.
>> Yeah. So I think TSMC deliver a great
set of results. Um if you look at the
second quarter the revenue came in even
ahead of the high end of their guidance
and I think the third quarter uh topline
guidance of uh the mid.8% 8% sequential
growth is also ahead of the low
singledigit expectation from the street
and also I think the gross margin
guidance also hold up really well
consider that you know we just now saw
the CFO saying the the headwind from the
ent dollar appreciation versus the US
and I think that's really quite a big
factor for TSMC if you think about the
gross margin impact because majority of
their revenue are in US dollars and yet
more than 70% of their cost of sales are
in are in anti uh dollars right so you
know that that appreciation anti-
dollars really has a material impact on
the margin. We're seeing they're guiding
over 200 uh basis point of impact in
second quarter and also in in third
quarter. Um and so I think without those
impact you know their result would have
been a much stronger beat you know
versus what we're seeing now. But they
also lift the fullear guidance as well
um from 20 m uh 25% to a 30% uh
year-over-year growth in US dollars
terms. It still seems to suggest though
that there might be a bit of a softer
revenue decline in the fourth quarter.
Um obviously with tariff threats and the
like. How big of a deal is that? Do you
think are they just simply just being
too conservative when it
>> Yeah, I think I think a lot of analysts
are drilling on the on the fourth
quarter, right? Because if you look at
the past five years, nor typically the
sequential growth in the fourth quarter
is normally at least flat to to
positive. Um certainly not your typical
seasonality to see the fourth quarter
revenue go down sequentially. Um but I
think man management is just being quite
prudent here that you know they've cited
potential tariff and macro impact. So
they they always want to be a little bit
more conservative on their guide.
>> What do the results tell you about the
continued momentum in the AI space?
Obviously there's also been news this
week about Nvidia getting the H20. We
can talk about that separately. But
generally speaking, how does this
basically reflect that continuing AI
demand in the west as well as in China
which sort of segus as well into that
H20 chip from Nvidia discussion.
>> Yeah, I think coming into this quarter I
think the tone sounds more positive
versus the last quarter. uh you know
last quarter a lot of people were were
concerned about whether co-as could be a
little bit over supply you know going in
into 2026 and then management's comment
were maybe the demand supply is more
balanced in 26 but this quarter you know
they emphasize on just trying to match
that demand catch up on on the demand uh
supply gap so I think definitely the
tone on the on the AI u momentum is more
positive this quarter
>> how do I position do I focus still on
the big names the big cap tech or or do
I look at more broadly now at the whole
AI supply chain
Yeah. So I think you have to to look at
a little bit of both, right? Because the
big cap are still if you look at the
infrastructure investment are still
going um well you know full ahead of
steam uh in terms of the infrastructure
investment we're we're hearing you know
gigawatts u AI data center you know
being announced right. So I think in
terms of the capex momentum is still
very strong. So infrastructure names
like the TSMC and VVA still benefits.
And then in terms of the broader based
um tech and AI, I think a lot of
enterprise already integrating you know
these models and into their their
workloads but it will take time you know
for us to see that that benefit. How
much of an impact will there be with the
I guess you could call it a relaxation
of the export controls on uh the Nvidia
chips the AI accelerators the H20 into
China? What does that mean as well for a
company, a contract manufacturer like
TSMC? Uh, as Nvidia also is coming up
with their other chip uh, architecture
that was going to comply with the Trump
previous export controls based on the
Black Whale RTX 6000 Pro chip. So, you
have kind of two AI accelerators
potentially going into China and being
made in Taiwan.
>> Yeah. So, I think first thing is that
the H20 is already right at the limit of
what is allowed to sell into China,
right? So I in terms of the spec now
it's hard to imagine the well under the
regulation you can't really have another
chip that goes over that that current
spec and then in terms of the new
architecture that there's a lot of
chatter you know in the market about I
think the advantage is that you're
having potentially under a new
architecture blackwell where you you
could potentially have you know other
benefits of moving to a new architecture
so I think most likely two two products
might exist side by side depending on
you know the customer needs. Um, does it
change how you view overall
the whole tech supply chain and between
US and China? You know, I'm just
wondering now that Nvidia has getting
the green light, does that open a whole
sort of opportunities for you as a stock
picker on what companies might benefit
and what industries might benefit from
this?
>> So, I think it it's not really a, you
know, a big green light that in that
sense, right? because it's still under
quite a lot of restrictions and H20 spec
is heavily restricted versus you know
currently the latest that we could buy
in terms of black well so I don't think
it's a it's a drastic shift you know
from from the previous policy um from
that standpoint I think certainly
marginally there there are you know
benefits and a media might get an extra
10 20 billion um you know US dollar
revenue for the end of the the fiscal
year and then um that gets a little bit
of boost for the whole supply chain but
I don't think anything drastic has has
changed The Nvidia stock is still your
key holding though. Yes,
>> you're still willing to hold this stock
despite where valuations are and the
like
>> how is there more upside then for the
stock?
>> Yeah. So I think at the moment we think
the the whole um sort of infrastructure
investment momentum is still ongoing. Um
and I think if you if you look at the
options that companies have right Nvidia
is still um one of the primary option
that that they go to. I mean we're
seeing more activity on the AS6 side. I
think there's a lot of projects that are
going on. Company are trying to to do
their own custom chip, but for now, I
think the bulk of that volume will still
come from Nvidia and and therefore
they'll benefit from that.
>> Does the fact that Jensen Hang is in
Beijing, he came there as well with the
basically tacid approval from the White
House that he can start selling it. Has
China sort of moved on or is is the
supply chain for AI development, the
deepseek moment that still has legs?
Does it still need those accelerators? I
mean, we're talking about Jensen Hong
and Nvidia says uh by blocking the H20
in April was potentially going to cut
about $8 billion from their revenue in
this current quarter. How much of a game
changer does the relaxation uh mean for
Nvidia?
>> Yeah, so I think it's always an ongoing
process, right? And on one hand, you
have China, you have different types of
startups that are trying to do these
accelerators and trying to fill that
gap. Maybe Nvidia left uh after after
the sanction. And then you have on the
other hand I think companies are are
still trying to buy anything they can
right whenever Nvidia is is willing to
to sell and I think that that's a sort
of parallel track that that you know
companies will work on whatever hardware
they they could get their hands to and
and train the models that that they can
do.
>> Uh we're about to actually speak to the
CFO of TSMC. I'm just wondering if you
had a question to ask him. What would
you ask Mandel Hong right now?
>> Yeah I think they they're less willing
to sort of look more forward in you know
into 26. So probably more of the the
advanced packaging capacity and their
outlook into 26 will be an interesting
one.
>> All right.
>> All right. Edward Chan, portfolio
manager and senior investment analyst at
Morray Asset Global Investments. Thanks
so much for your insights and we'll hear
from the TSMC senior vice president and
CFO Wendel Hang later speaking
exclusively to Bloomberg about the
company's forecast and tech tensions
between China and the United States.
>> Yeah. Turning to more markets and beyond
just the TSMC space. Let's bring in our
Bloomberg MI strategist Mary Nicola who
she joins us now from Singapore. Um
Mary, it's wrapping up to be a pretty
good week when it comes to risk assets.
There's also that whole Fed debate and
whether you know what Waller just
mentioned a few hours ago about maybe a
July sort of cut is justified. I mean,
what what's top of mind for you as you
wrap up the week?
>> Yeah, it's interesting to see how the
narrative and the debate is ongoing
between a lot of the Fed uh members. So
you had Williams who was saying that
he's looking um to take a pause and just
see how things unfold. And then of
course we had retail sales numbers
showing us that the economy is holding
up and is relatively robust. And I think
overall what that suggests especially to
equity marketers and investors is
actually quite positive. So even if we
see a delay um in in Fed rate cuts
because Waller seems to be on on on the
path of we should look through tariffs
which is very different from a lot of
the narrative from the rest. But I think
the focus here is if the economy is
still holding up well and the earnings
are unfolding in a positive ma manner
then that's actually positive for
equities and it's not going to only be a
ripple effect in in have a positive
impact just on US equities but it's
likely to ripple through to global
equities as well. And I think one thing
we have to keep in mind through this
earnings season is that the bar is set
quite low. So, it's important to look at
what the earnings outlooks are for a lot
of the companies and what they're
expecting, especially how they're
reading a lot of the tariff noise. Um,
but so far, I think even if you get a
delay in tariff in uh in Fed rate cuts,
I think that there's overall positivity
in equity markets because of the fact
that the economy is holding up.
>> Yeah. Speaking of those ripple effects,
how many ripples do we still have
potentially as we go into a positive
weekend obviously with the tech uh you
know uh what influence from TSMC and
also Nvidia this week, but also we're
getting really into the the nitty-gritty
of the potential deadline of August 12th
for that China US extension, if you
will, of their goodwill, their truce,
and the talk of a potential
you know, grand bargain Trump dealing
with with China. Is this is this kind of
tech momentum just kind of a a symptom
of what is potentially a grander story
that we're going to be talking about in
the coming weeks as we head towards the
doldrums of August?
>> Well, I think in general you're seeing
the underlying fundamentals still quite
strong. So as we we saw what we saw from
Nvidia, what we saw from TSMC, uh next
week we have Google also coming through.
So a lot of those earnings are going to
actually build to that. And really what
matters is the fundamentals. Are the
fundamentals still pointing to a strong
direction and are they um having and and
are they suggesting that the AI space
and tech space is still quite strong and
then add to that some of the policy
tailwinds that we're going to likely get
or we we are getting from China. So,
China has been a very the on the policy
side has been very supportive of the
tech industry and obviously the the
tariffs and the and the spat between the
US and US and China trade tensions still
loom especially with the deadline as you
suggested but again there are some signs
that the relationship is improving.
There are um suggestions of talks coming
through and obviously all those policy
tailwinds will add only to that momentum
but really when it comes down to it we
still have to see that the fundamentals
are well anchored and that the earnings
are still solid.
>> All right Bloomberg Mive strategist Mary
Nicola thanks so much for joining us.
Well let's get back to Beijing where
Chinese commerce minister Wongwent Tao
speaking at a briefing there. uh he is
talking about well the the whole preface
of the press conference is about the
next five-year plan in China. He says
he's hopeful to see retail sales exceed
50 trillion yuan in 2025. Domestic
consumption obviously a huge priority of
the top leadership in Beijing and surely
for the commerce minister there Wong uh
as he is also of course dealing with the
external shocks from that trade war. any
insight we can get from him on any
potential grand bargain uh from the
United States would be very interesting
but clearly they need to boost domestic
consumption to offset some of the export
shocks. There was a state council
meeting this week. It the the readout
was pretty dry, but they had this term
again, Steve, domestic circulation,
right? We've been talking about dual
circulation for many months now here as
well. So, we'll see what that means.
When it comes to the retail sector and
really overall the consumption space,
Goldman Sachs is uh going joining us to
talk a little bit more about that coming
up. We're going to leave these pictures
there from Bloomber subscribers, though.
You can check it out at live go.
[Music]
Just recapping some of the inflation
numbers that we got at Japan here early
this morning. So, still looking
elevated, though we have eased off from
the two-year high when it comes to
prices there. but certainly is going to
be keeping pressure on Prime Minister
Shiguro Ishiba ahead of that Sunday
national election. The JGB market though
right now we're seeing a little bit of a
bid across some of the long end of the
curve for now but you know people are
you know we take a look at the traders
and what they're really forecasting with
this upper house election uh if in fact
we see uh you know a sense of of this
majority that's being lost and really
what this means for economic policy and
government spending. This is going to
lead to maybe even a potential triple
dig dip in Japanese JGB bonds. So
certainly that's one thing to watch here
as we get closer to these elections.
Steve,
>> yeah, and the yen's not showing much
confidence at 148.44
to the US uh dollar at this moment.
Japan's Prime Minister Shigaro Ishiba
will meet US Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant today ahead of Sunday's upper
house election that we've been talking
about. Bloomberg's opinion u Bloomberg
opinions Grody Brady joins us now. Uh
Grody uh Ishiba's failure to steady
trade ties with Washington could be his
final misstep. That is the headline of
your latest piece. He's in sort of a
no-win situation, right? He he can't
give too good of deal to the United
States at a time when of course his
mandate's pretty weak right now.
>> Absolutely. It's a tricky situation for
anyone and as you say he's in a trickier
situation than most with a minority
government uh an election uh coming up
that is already uh he's already polling
quite badly in um and the situation that
you have in Japan at the moment. The the
reason that I have you know that
headline on the column that you
mentioned there is because you know
there is a contrast to be had between
how Ishuba is doing and the
extraordinary um efforts that was done
under the late Shinszo AB who obviously
was Ishiba's you know great rival over
the last 15 years within the uh LDP. uh
Abbe was able to do things maybe we
shouldn't expect normal politicians to
to be able to do but you know famously
he was able to to contain Trump to to
form a relationship with Trump back when
people had no idea how to deal with him
and no idea how to handle him. Ishiba
hasn't been able to replicate that at
all. Um and you know a couple of months
ago we were talking about the hope that
Japan would get a quick trade deal. Here
we are, you know, three months down the
line and Japan is just being treated
pretty much like any other country and
not as the, you know, lockep partner for
the US that it has been in the past.
>> Yeah, I I still remember those pictures
of of them playing golf together and the
like and and the warm embrace that the
you know, US and Japan had back then
under Shinszo Abbe. But but tell us a
bit more about why you're seeing such
lack of popularity in the LDP party here
right now. Is it just on just what we're
seeing the external threats with trade
tensions and the like but what what's
really happening domestically do you
think in Japan?
>> There's a number of factors. There's
obviously uh inflation is one of the
large factors. You know, Japan is not
used to having inflation and even the
the relatively mild inflation compared
to some other countries postco um has
been a shock to a country that is
basically used to the price of things
going down year onear and re you know
real spending power increasing um over
the last 20 years. That's one factor.
There's also the lingering effects of um
LDP funding scandal that was you know
it's over two years ago now at this
stage. But I think the number one factor
that you're seeing is that a lot of the
conservative voters who would typically
vote for the LDP are quite disillusioned
and particularly disillusioned in
Ishiba. Ishiba comes from a a more
liberal wing or perhaps the most liberal
wing um of the LDP even though you know
it is a conservative party. He is on the
more liberal leading side of that and he
really hasn't displayed much leadership.
He's been very disappointing since he
came in in terms of his electoral
results. he was elected, if you'll
recall, um, back back in in last
September, the idea was to replace Fumio
Kishida with a leader who would be able
to call an election, restore the, uh,
LDP's mandate and stabilize politics.
And really, he's done exactly the
opposite. And if polls are as bad,
sorry, if the if the vote is as bad on
Sunday as polls are looking, that's
going to get um, even weaker going into
next week. So if if if he gets
absolutely slaughtered at the ballot box
on Sunday, does he potentially resign or
does he go the opposite way and say,
"What the heck? I have nothing to lose.
I'm going to strike a deal with the US."
>> There's definitely potential for it to
go both ways. I think traditionally uh
you would see um and we have seen this
in the past that an LDP leader who had
who would have had um you know if they
do as badly as poll suggests on Sunday
three disastrous elections in a row
there was the lower house vote uh last
year there was recent Tokyo assembly
elections where the LDP really got got
um got whipped um and the upper house
election that we're going to have on
Sunday um as leader you know Isha would
be expected to take responsibility for
this, but we are in a bit of a a tricky
situation within the LDP. There's a bit
of a leadership vacuum at the moment.
His rivals may not want this moment,
particularly with the threat of tariffs
hanging over them um to take over or to
to try and oust him and try to take over
at this time. And then he may also,
there's been reports this week that he
may also use the threat of tariffs. He
was very quick to term this when they
were first imposed to term it a national
crisis. So he may say, "Well, hang on.
We can't be having this power vacuum in
the midst of this national crisis when
we haven't even reached a deal with the
US,
>> right? It's going to be very
interesting." Thank you so much. We're
already there, our Bloomberg opinion
columnist on what to expect really
leading up to this upper house election
in Japan. Plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
It's a slow Tuesday, so we're taking
stock here this morning when it comes to
what's going on. This eye watering rally
when it comes to Chinese bank stocks,
right, that we've had of this year.
Well, it it part of the appeal was the
dividend play obviously, but now it
seems like they might be losing that
sort of attraction. Right. Take a look
at the evaluations of some of these
banks here right now and we're actually
seeing them trade above book which we
haven't seen for some time. So, are
things looking a little bit pricey? You
also saw the likes of some of the the
insurers like China Life recently also
trim some of their holdings of some of
these banks as well. Why? Maybe the
rally's gone too far. Also, when it
comes to dividend plays, the yields have
actually been falling. So maybe there's
less of a need to really kind of dive
into this sector, but it really has been
more of a defensive play for many that
are also leaning into maybe the growth
stocks, that barbell strategy. One thing
to look at though when you take a look
at the financial sector moving forward.
Plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Oh,
>> 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
heading to that lunch break and it is of
course the election eve or at least the
penultimate one leading up to that upper
house election. So there is some angst
maybe leading up to this. We were just
talking about how you know Besson's in
town there as well. So if we ever see if
in fact a trade deal with Japan and the
US, what does that mean for the likes of
Ishabasan here this weekend? Certainly,
that's a lot at stake here. Dollar yen
not doing a whole lot. We're at 148
levels here right now, but know expect
maybe a bit more angst in the long end
of that JGB curve. Steve,
>> yeah, you know, we're also looking at
China right now. We've been dipping into
Beijing where we have the commerce
minister Wongwen Tao speaking about the
next 5-year plan, but he's talking a lot
about consumption and retail sales. uh
he's been saying that he'd like to see
retail sales exceed 50 trillion yuan
this year in 2025 and he sees Chinese
retail sales on a purchasing price
parody basis at 1.6 times the United
States. So again there's there's
optimism that they can rebalance the
economy and sort of absorb some of that
excess capacity that they are exporting
but again it's a it's a long road to hoe
to get the consumer confidence going
again. Yeah, it certainly still seems to
be the key question. I think we were
just talking to Hu Shan this week about,
you know, is there more animal spirits
there when it comes to boosting consumer
confidence and the like. That's one of
the key questions that their clients are
asking as well. Goldman Sachs recently
also talking about the unexciting
consumption backdrop that we're seeing
uh in the space here right now and
really talking about these price wars
and almost a lot of these subsectors in
the consumer space. Let's bring in
Michelle Chang. She's co-head of Asia
Consumer Research and she joins us here
right now. It's interesting though when
you take a look at just the price wars
that we're seeing. It's almost in all
the all the sectors in the consumption
space here right now. you were saying we
could see more downside in in in terms
of the pricing risks
>> where
>> yeah so if you recall I think earlier we
we we mentioned that when we are seeing
consumption bottoming out uh in fourth
quarter first quarter we were seeing
pricing stabilize but it's true that
from second quarter you have like BYD
cutting the price and then uh into the
June 18 promotion uh activity is still
very uh elevated and uh uh we also see
the platform uh internet uh big giants
they initially issuing good consumption
coupon to drive the consumption but then
it looks like they further step up these
competition uh the the level of the
competition and then uh it definitely
drag the pricing. So at this moment we
see basically across the board pricing
are under pressure uh no matter is the
apparel they still have some inventories
to digest uh you have spirits uh that's
partially uh impacted by these u alcohol
ban and it's also see weaker demand so
the drag down the pricing so um uh it's
true that I think from the uh quarter
over quarter trends so we see the risk
but having said that um second half last
year actually consumption was uh pretty
at uh this what this this is when the
government start to push out the
stimulus and the base should be slightly
uh easier but um originally I think some
companies are looking for maybe their
stabilization and they can drive a
better growth uh into second half but
now we still have a hope that the growth
rate will be better than uh first half
but uh I think uh the the the the
acceleration the magnitude might be
smaller than what we expected
>> so what's going to be the catalyst to
end this 33 month straight run of
factory gate deflation. Also, CPI is
very I mean just around zero anyway
right now. Uh there don't doesn't seem
to be a lot of catalyst coming forward
on the calendar. Maybe 111 singles day
in November. Uh aside from cash handouts
from the government or a policy shift
from Xiinping where he's saying no more
price war in EVs, what's it going to
take?
>> Uh definitely I think it go back to the
confidence level. So I think uh earlier
when we see price more stabilized on the
one side I think a consumer have some
probably confidence level uh bottom out.
So they are slightly more willing to pay
some uh not necessarily premium but uh
pay a reasonable price for the good
quality product. Uh but on the other
side I think at the at that time uh the
competition landscape slightly better
because I think some merchants uh even
they do a lot of promotion activities uh
they couldn't really uh bear the cost.
Uh so this is actually one of the angle
we we talk about restaurants industry
competitive landscape setting improve
because uh uh this actually squeeze out
some of the weaker players but at this
moment I think it's a bit complicated
since there's a uh the the support from
the platforms and this makes things a
little bit complicated at this moment
some weaker players they they stay they
can still survive so I think hopefully
we still want to have a more um a
reasonable competitive landscape so that
the good guys good quality companies
they can benefit How do you boost this
whole domestic circulation theme then? I
mean, do you do you expect the these
trade- in programs?
>> Could it actually widen to cover a wider
range of of products? And there's also
some chatter about subsidizing services
as well. Do you foresee any of these
happening anytime soon?
>> Uh if we quote uh our macro team's
comment, I think uh they could be still
more like targeted uh support stimula.
So you actually see that the trading
policy work reasonably well. Also if you
look at retail data headline numbers is
still resilient and trading uh uh even
there's some month monthly volatility
but uh uh that sector actually support
the the general retail sales uh and also
you see like birth rate uh birth uh
support and uh also safety net
improvement but at this moment uh uh we
don't really see a a broad base large
scale stimulus.
>> How how do investors read what you're
saying and how do they
>> basically benefit from it?
>> Yeah. So that's why this year there's
been a big theme in the consumer space
uh new consumption versus uh traditional
consumptions and new consumptions uh
partially is uh those sectors really uh
uh exploring the wise space and
partially is some newly listed company
but the quality companies being listed
and so investors they can have some new
ideas uh they can explore and uh so I
think although I think there's
increasing debate on the new consumer
names given expectation has been moving
up significantly and they are debating
to next year but I think Oh you know
when investor invest in consumer space
they always like growth. So if a company
can still deliver reasonable like 20 30%
plus growth this is I think uh still the
area people will focus on versus for the
old consumer or traditional consumer
space actually it's not all that but
although generally it's not as exciting
as before but we still see some quality
good companies uh market leader if they
can have a uh agile business model they
continue to enhance the efficiency they
still have a good uh opportunity and uh
last but not least I think uh balance
sheet uh shareholder return uh for the
traditional names if they can have a
steady earnings and they are willing to
return the uh cash flow to the
shareholders I think this is still the
the bright side
>> um the big the big news this week was
what we heard from from PopMart right
that that guidance of what 350% surge uh
in profit I mean h how important is
>> I mean the whole international expansion
side of things here I know you're
looking at overseas demand for example
for some of these companies right where
labuboo have basically gone global in
some way how important is that theme
moving forward
>> definitely it's important uh starting
from around like two years ago we tried
to uh uh study the opportunity for
Chinese brands going global I think
initially uh the Chinese brands are
getting more attractions domestically
but if you look at uh Japan's experience
back in 1990 why uh quite a few um
consumer companies uh can get bigger and
bigger even domestic consumption was
weak is really going global uh but in uh
among the the the Chinese companies
going global I think there are actually
two stages
uh in the very first stage we see a lot
of success uh leveraging their supply
chain. So uh no matter it's w goods
company uh handset companies they are
all uh sitting on very strong supply
chain but indeed we are start to seeing
another wave hopefully is the branding
uh going globally and so the IP company
is example hopefully some jewelry
company is example
>> well LAU is one on the buy list right
the gold company and gold projected to
go even higher so how does what what are
some names that you can reveal? Mhm.
Yeah. So uh on the one side from the
sector perspective uh uh for for those
uh sector we like definitely the
structural growth opportunity wise space
to go. So uh those IP retailer companies
or even pet food companies this is also
area see a lot of opportunity uh and uh
sportsware I think to some they still
have volume growth story
>> is one that's listed here.
>> Yeah and uh uh beverage company uh this
is also the space and restaurants. Yeah,
and the company level I think definitely
uh it become more diverg even within the
sector. So if a company can really
provide the different product and in the
right brand cycle, it will be good.
>> All right, Michelle, thanks so much for
coming in and talking about a great
subject this Friday, consumption. I'm
not going down the labu path just yet.
Michelle Chun, co-head of the Asia
consumer research at Goldman Sachs. All
right, coming up on the show, how
Chinese factories are struggling to cope
with Trump's tariff tirades. Our team at
Bloomberg Originals explores what
companies are doing to stay in business.
You're watching the China Show.
[Music]
Well, tariff chaos is shaking global
supply chains and forcing Chinese
manufacturers to rethink their
strategies. Bloomberg Originals has been
exploring whether they're truly eyeing a
shift to production in the US.
[Music]
>> Navigating high-risk environments when
you can't see what's ahead is no mean
feat. But it's the kind of uncertainty
Donald Trump's trade actions have forced
on China's factory workers.
>> President Trump ramping up trade
tensions again.
>> The word tariff, music to my ears.
>> So, we're in the realm of just endless
tit.
>> This just kind of indicates how much of
a moving target this has really become.
>> At stake is hundreds of billions of
dollars in bilateral trade and access to
the world's single largest consumer
market, backed by American spending
power. This trade war basically leaves
no one untouched. Whether that's
investors, business people, or officials
in any country.
>> It just seems like every manufacturer in
China realizes that they need to have
strategies in case things get worse.
>> Two things are becoming clear, though.
One, that finding a replacement for the
mighty US consumer is as essential as it
is difficult. and two that despite all
the tariff chaos, Chinese manufacturers
aren't rushing to shift production into
the US.
>> Americans don't want to make spatulas.
They want to eat hamburgers. And I don't
mean that in a negative way. I want to
eat hamburgers, too. But I'm here in
China making the spatulas to do it.
Americans don't want these jobs. And to
think that manufacturing would go back
to the United States is a farce.
Chinese manufacturers have had to get
used to living with uncertainty.
>> They're not looking at their strategy 5
10 years down the line. They're looking
to keep their factories open for the
next few months.
>> And that's costing money and clients.
>> Typically, we'll do about 150 to 160
million in revenue. This year, we're
down about 20%. Our customers are
essentially on pause.
>> Even exporters of incense destined for
yoga studios, people you'd expect to be
pretty zen, are ftting over demand.
You probably know why
>> we really need to change the way trade
works around the world.
>> We basically saw in April that the US
and China traded these tit fortat tariff
hikes which raised tariffs up to 145%
for Chinese goods going to the US and
125% for US goods coming to China. In
midMay we saw those tariffs reduced.
Still, Trump continues to make threats,
including against countries that helped
China sidestep tariffs.
Trade between the two nations has ridden
steadily for the last 25 years.
>> We're looking at basically 600 billion
dollar worth of goods traded between the
two nations last year.
>> And with that has come a ballooning
trade deficit. In 2024, the US imported
nearly $439
billion US worth of goods from China.
But US exports to China total little
more than 143 billion. That's about a
$295
billion difference or trade deficit.
>> One country actually said to me, I I was
amazed that we were able to get away
with it for this long.
While the US administration argues
tariffs are the best way to address
trade imbalances,
>> Chinese manufacturers, they don't
understand why the US is doing this. For
a lot of Chinese exporters, it's going
to be a lot more costly, a lot more
difficult to sell to the US market going
forward.
>> The concern is that companies that will
no longer have access to their biggest
export market will then need to cut
prices, let go of people. there will be
lower wages and you know that's going to
damper consumer sentiments. Consumer
confidence in China is already at
historic lows because of this prolonged
property crisis where a lot of wealth is
tied up.
>> Despite all the uncertainty, the latest
data shows China's economy appears to
have held up despite a slump in trade
with the US. China's gross domestic
product expanded by a better thanex
expected 5.2% 2% during the second
quarter of the year. While exports to
the US fell 24% in the second quarter,
China's overall exports rose over 6%
during the same period. But the country
is facing persistent deflation, meaning
companies are earning less money and
making them more reluctant to invest and
higher. Although China has signaled this
intention to shift to a more
consumer-driven economy, it still really
depends on its manufacturing sector to
be able to meet its growth targets.
>> As uncertainty around Trump's tariff
plans persist, manufacturers, workers,
and their families are stuck in limbo
and bracing for the worst.
Although Chinese exports to the US
account for something like 3% of GDP,
once you take into the secondary effect,
the loss of jobs, lower wages,
potentially price cuts to get rid of
inventory, then we're looking at a much
worse situation and potentially a
deflationary spiral.
>> And so with Trump's trade assault
whipsaring relations between the world's
biggest economies, China's manufacturers
are grappling for options.
For one thing, US businesses and
distributors who buy goods manufactured
in China need time to plan orders. At
Vong Enterprises, a manufacturer in
Guangdong, Jacob Rothman says this
hasn't been possible.
[Music]
>> There are buying cycles and they only
happen once a year. and shipping for
those categories, no matter what it is,
are regimented to those shipping cycles.
>> On again, offagain US policy has been
confusing, too. Trump's 90-day delay
following his so-called liberation day
tariffs didn't help companies like
Jacobs
was saying how his staff let out a big
cheer uh when they heard about the
reduction. Later that evening, uh his US
customers uh called him and said they
were still upset. They didn't know where
to place their orders because we're too
late for the previous season that they
missed product for and too early for the
next season. So where do they place
their orders? About 700 miles to the
west outside the city of Kunming,
Jonathan Wang runs Shanty Veil, an
incense brand.
The family business has been producing
their products by hand for more than a
decade. They have their own workshop,
their own farm. And over the last year
or so, Jonathan has decided to export to
the US.
He was also hit by Trump's closure of
the dimminimous tariff loophole, a Latin
term meaning too small to matter. It let
small businesses ship low value packages
duty-free.
Fore.
In an effort to sidestep the evolving
tariffs, many companies in mainland
China have adopted a so-called China
plus one model. India and Southeast Asia
have benefited. In particular,
>> our first factory outside of China was
in Cambodia and it was during President
Trump's first term and it was really to
test if we could project our
manufacturing beyond China. Since 70% of
our goods go to the United States, we
did have to of course make cuts to our
manufacturing staff.
>> We've seen a pretty big exodus to
Southeast Asia to take advantage of
those lower labor costs, but also for
the proximity to Chinese raw materials.
>> We have no choice. So even within this
year our Cambodian factory doubled in
size. So did our factory outside of
Delhi and our factory outside of Mumbai
is adding new manufacturing space. Now
>> we've already seen exporters look to
emerging markets for other developed
markets for those goods that they're no
longer able to sell to the US.
>> 30% of our volume is going to Europe.
Presumably we could say well let's stop
US business, right? Let's focus on
Europe. But then you have every single
company and manufacturing firm focusing
on a smaller market. Competition becomes
even more fierce for Europe.
It's very hard to replace the US
consumer. It's the biggest market and
American consumers are very open to new
ideas and trying new trends.
>> There's just no way that China can fill
that volume of exports uh quickly,
whether it's emerging markets or uh
developed countries. But in the long
term, they're hoping that these emerging
markets will provide a way out.
>> There's no quick replacement for the US
market. The spending power of the US
consumer is so strong, even with
tariffs, Chinese companies are not
wholly scared off. Instead, it's about
managing an uncertain relationship and
planning for the worst.
>> So the conversations in Beijing, whether
it's among officials, business people,
academics, it's not really about how to
rebuild the relationship with the US,
it's about managing the decoupling and
how to do it in the least painful way
possible.
Great stuff from our China team there as
we can see. And subscribers can see that
documentary right now on the terminal or
at bloomberg.com. It'll be available
later on the Bloomberg Originals YouTube
channel.
>> Yeah. And we're checking some of these
graphite stocks here in the region here
this morning. This is on the back of
what the US Commerce Department imposed
these prelim anti-dumping duties of 93
and a half% on graphite, which is a key
battery material, right? You're taking a
look at some of these Korean names. The
Australian names as well are basically
surging. Posco future up 18%. Sara over
in Australia also up about 17% this
morning. We got plenty more ahead. This
is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Well, Chinese Commerce Minister Wong
Wenta still speaking off and on in
Beijing in a briefing on the next 5-year
plan. He has acknowledged he has met
with visiting uh Nvidia CEO Jensen
Huang. Obviously, Jensen Hong is there
for a supply chain conference, but he's
really there to meet with the likes of
Wong Wenta as well as Ki Fun as
especially after announcing Nvidia did
uh that the meeting he had Jensen Hong
with Trump last week netted him a
resumption of exports of H20 chips into
China.
>> Yeah. So, certainly gaining that bit of
reprieve there for Nvidia, but it's a
big win uh for them in the mainland as
well. So, certainly that's one thing to
watch. Uh obviously on the back of that
whole Nvidia story is of course their
supplier TSMC which really has really
lifted a lot of the sentiment here in
the region here this morning. The TSMC
stock is at records now and we're seeing
gains of 2% or more. Our interview is
coming up next. A lot of questions to
ask the CFO Wendel Hong not just about
the whole AI sort of demand picture
which CCway the CEO did really highlight
that's still very strong
>> but the FX side of things here and the
currency headwinds moving forward.
>> That's right. Absolutely. And what is
going to be the outlook for 2026 because
of all those headwinds? We won't know.
And they didn't give a 2026 outlook.
That's it from us here from the China
show. Insight with Helena Almond. We're
going to bring you that interview coming
up next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]